# FarmRight: A Crop Recommendation System
Agriculture is extremely vital to our economy since millions of rural households in India rely on agriculture as their primary source of income.It also significantly contributes to our overall GDP holding the place of largest employment-providing sector. In the worldwide agriculture sector, India is ranked at second position. International trade and food supplies are sufficient to meet all food grain requirements. With a significant share of worldwide Agricultural product exports, it is ranked ninth. The health of the crop is affected by drastically changing elements such as weather and soil. Farmers confront a huge challenge in selecting the best crop for their property to maximize yield and profit.Farmers sometimes make mistakes when it comes to selecting the appropriate crop and sowing area for production depending on environmental conditions. There is no trustworthy agriculture recommendation system for Indian farmers. Investments, money, and labor are all squandered if the wrong crop or planting place is chosen. Farmers are scared to seed huge regions these days because of unexpected yields, unpredictable climate fluctuations, and a lack of assets. To address this problem, this research presents a crop recommendation system based on a multi-label classification model for crop recommendation that takes into account the user’s state, district, soil qualities, and climate features to generate a list of recommended crops. Researchers examine several algorithms based on their performance criteria to find the most accurate crop recommendation model. The most accurate model was discovered to be an RF Technique, with a precision of 82.74 percent, a recall of 80.92 percent, and an F1 score of 78.67 percent. The model that has been trained thus far can be utilized to provide the user with a list of recommended crops. Keywords: crop recommendation, multi-labels classification, random forest algorithm, soil characteristics, climate properties, agriculture. 1 Introduction
